Infant FreeSurfer:

0-2 years
Myelination causes contrast intensity reversal

Atlas - MRI volume and manual labels of one member
probabilistic atlas - average volume and corresponding label probabilities. FreeSurfer uses both.

T1 weighted input -> intensity normalization -> skullstripping -> volumetric segmentation
-> white matter segmentation -> surface extraction

Existing postnatal infant segmentation tools are restricted to newborns.
Discrete age points (0, 3, 6, 9, 12 months) or 2 years.
T1 is preferable as they are acquired at all age groups
T2 has poor contrast

Labels: cerebral cortex, cerebral white matter, deep gray matter, hippocampus, amygdala, cerebellum and brainstem (Appendix 4)

Proposed automated segmentation and surface extraction pipeline to accommodate T1 weighted MRIs from 0-2 year-olds
-> segmentations of cortical and subcortical areas of brain
Pipeline closely following adult-oriented FreeSurfer reconstruction.

Skullstripping
Double consensus skullstripping
Multi-Atlas Skull-Stripping:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1076633213004182
BET, BSE, 3dSkullStrip, HWA, ROBEX
Transforming brain masks from atlas spaces into subject space using registration (DRAMMS) + label fusion tool (STAPLE)

Volumetric segmentation
Design of multiatlas label fusion seg-fw
An MRI-contrast adaptive version of Bayesian multi-atlas algorithm
Relies on generative model and uses Bayesian inference -> most likely segmentation.
N candidate maps made from registered atlases. Each segmentation is L(x) is assumed a sample of a logOdds model defined on the dist(trans(L_{M(x)}))
Given L of test, intensities I are assumed independent Gaussian distributions with label-dependent-parameters  corrupted by multiplicative (non-neg and smooth) bias field
This created the base for a Bayesian inference problem given image I and registered segmentations L_n -> find most likely segmentation L

Key difference is some atlasses with insufficient contrast (gray-white) is (set to 0) in M(x) over white matter and cerebral cortex regions.
This allows a larger not uniform training set. The algorithm does not assume already-seen intensity distributions in new subjects. Instead exploits consistency of voxel intensities within regions and labels.
IMPORTANT in 0-2 years because of myelination

Training set (26) manually segmented T1-weighted almost uniformly distributed in age ROI ex newborn.
For multiatlas approach DRAMMS tool is used again (reasoned with robust and accurate performance in the presence of image background noise, FOV differences, image appearance differences and atlas-to-subject anatomical and age variations.)

Surface extraction